---
layout: post
title:  "My goals for 2020"
description: "Not a new years resolution"
image: /assets/images/posts/my-2020-goals/my-2020-goals.jpg
tags:
  - life
---

<span class="first-letter">F</span>or the last few years I've been feeling kinda stuck in a rut. I have just felt like I'm not moving forward in any meaningful way. I've given it a lot of thought. I've tried to take a step back and look at my life. I tried to think about what I want it to look like, what it actually looks like now, and what steps I can take to get them closer to the same. I still don't know that I have the answers for that but I do know there are some things I would like to do or change this year. I don't want to call these "New Year's resolutions" because I feel that cheapens what I'm trying to do. Every year people make and break resolutions and I don't want to allow myself to justify not achieving my goals because "everybody breaks their resolutions." I want to make a life change that lasts far more than a year but here are my current goals to start myself down that path.

#### Find a creative outlet

I find myself just wishing I had an outlet. Something creative and fun. I love to create things and lately due to personal issues I've really lost motivation to do much of anything. I want to fight that and push myself to do something. I want to keep perusing my current hobbies like home roasting and becoming a better home barista, but I also want to find new things to do. I don't know exactly what I want to do yet but I want to explore lots of options and really try to find something or several things I thoroughly enjoy. That's part of why I've started writing blog posts. It's a way to put my thoughts and interests out there into the world. But that's not all I want to try. I might try streaming, making videos, taking up photography, exploring more coding side projects, and/or something else. I don't know-it's hard to commit to any particular thing just yet, but you get the idea. I want to do something.

#### I want to start reading

I received 4 books for Christmas (all on coffee). They all look really interesting to me and I want to read them. I have never been much of a reader. In fact I think the last book I read completely (not including books read in school) was in the 5th grade. This is not something I'm proud of but as a very visual learner it's really hard for me to comprehend what I've read which has made reading very discouraging. I want to push through that and get better to better enjoy reading. Also, my son loves to be read to and I want to encourage that. So my goal is to read those 4 books I got this year.

#### Start living healthier

Just about everyone has the New Year's resolution of losing weight. This isn't that. Although it'd be great if I lost weight, more importantly, I want to feel healthier, both physically and mentally. I've been pretty consistently going to the gym at least 3 days a week since last September and I want to keep that up. But also I want to start eating better, and not just better foods for me, better quality foods too. I want to start cooking more at home and eating out less. I want to try to support more local business instead of buying everything at a mega-store. I want to use social media less and start going on dates with my wife more. I just want to improve how I feel in all aspects.

#### Really focus on school

I have had a bumpy history with college. I have been to several and tried at least 3 different majors, but I've never completed one of them. I want this time to be different. A few years ago my wife and I moved to Edwardsville IL so I could attend <abbr title="Southern Illinois University Edwardsville">SIUe</abbr>. I was in the computer science program. I had gotten about halfway through that program when my son was born. My wife was the only one working at the time while I was in school and with her taking maternity leave and expressing interest in quitting her current job anyway, I realized I wasn't going to be able to afford to continue going to school with an infant. So, I dropped out and started looking for jobs. After a little over a year and me working a couple different service jobs, my wife got a new job and we were able to afford for me to quit, start my son in daycare part time, and me stay home with him the rest of the time. This also allowed me to start school again. Last year I started an online program at <abbr title="Arizona State University">ASU</abbr>. I chose to go this route because  going to a campus would have been really hard to schedule around my son's daycare. Also ASU took all my previous credits and allowed me to basically start right where I left off. If everything goes well and as planned I could graduate as early as this December. So this leads into my goal. I want to finish this time. I want this time to be different. I can see the finish line, this is the home stretch, I just need to buckle down and do this.

#### Start setting and achieving more goals

The only way I'm going to continue to grow as a person and into the person I want to be is to set more goals for myself and really work hard to achieve them. I don't want this to be an every year thing, I want this to be an every month/week/day thing where I set both big and small goals for myself that improve my life.

I hope that reading about my goals has maybe gotten you thinking about goals you'd like to set or things you'd like to change for yourself. We can do it!
